Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) is a common cause of death and disability.
However, existing tools for TBI diagnosis are either subjective or require
extensive clinical setup and expertise. The increasing affordability and
reduction in size of relatively high-performance computing systems combined
with promising results from TBI related machine learning research make it
possible to create compact and portable systems for early detection of TBI.
This work describes a Raspberry Pi based portable, real-time data acquisition,
and automated processing system that uses machine learning to efficiently
identify TBI and automatically score sleep stages from a single-channel
Electroen-cephalogram (EEG) signal. We discuss the design, implementation, and
verification of the system that can digitize EEG signal using an Analog to
Digital Converter (ADC) and perform real-time signal classification to detect
the presence of mild TBI (mTBI). We utilize Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)
and XGBoost based predictive models to evaluate the performance and demonstrate
the versatility of the system to operate with multiple types of predictive
models. We achieve a peak classification accuracy of more than 90% with a
classification time of less than 1 s across 16 s - 64 s epochs for TBI vs
control conditions. This work can enable development of systems suitable for
field use without requiring specialized medical equipment for early TBI
detection applications and TBI research. Further, this work opens avenues to
implement connected, real-time TBI related health and wellness monitoring
systems.