Observation of high energy cosmic neutrinos by ICECUBE has ushered in a new
era in exploring both cosmos and new physics beyond the Standard Model (SM). In
the standard picture, although mostly $\nu_\mu$ and $\nu_e$ are produced in the
source, oscillation will produce $\nu_\tau$ {\it en route}. Certain beyond SM
scenarios, like interaction with ultralight DM can alter this picture. Thus,
the flavor composition of the cosmic neutrino flux can open up the possibility
of exploring certain beyond the SM scenarios that are inaccessible otherwise.
We show that the $\tau$ flavor holds a special place among the neutrino flavors
in elucidating new physics. Interpreting the two anomalous events observed by
ANITA as $\nu_\tau$ events makes the tau flavor even more intriguing. We study
how the detection of the two tau events by ICECUBE constrains the interaction
of the neutrinos with ultralight dark matter and discuss the implications of
this interaction for even higher energy cosmic neutrinos detectable by future
radio telescopes such as ARA, ARIANNA and GRAND. We also revisit the $3+1$
neutrino scheme as a solution to the two anomalous ANITA events and clarify a
misconception that exists in the literature about the evolution of high energy
neutrinos in matter within the $3+1$ scheme with a possibility of scattering
off nuclei. We show that the existing bounds on the flux of $\nu_\tau$ with
energy of EeV rules out this solution for the ANITA events. We show that the
$3+1$ solution can be saved from both this bound and from the bound on the
extra relativistic degrees of freedom in the early universe by turning on the
interaction of neutrinos with ultralight dark matter.