Plasmonic excitations such as surface-plasmon-polaritons (SPPs) and
graphene-plasmons (GPs), carry large momenta and are thus able to confine
electromagnetic fields to small dimensions. This property makes them ideal
platforms for subwavelength optical control and manipulation at the nanoscale.
The momenta of these plasmons are even further increased if a scheme of
metal-insulator-metal and graphene-insulator-metal are used for SPPs and GPs,
respectively. However, with such large momenta, their far-field excitation
becomes challenging. In this work, we consider hybrids of graphene and metallic
nanostructures and study the physical mechanisms behind the interaction of
far-field light with the supported high momenta plasmon modes. While there are
some similarities in the properties of GPs and SPPs, since both are of the
plasmon-polariton type, their physical properties are also distinctly
different. For GPs we find two different physical mechanism related to either
GPs confined to isolated cavities, or large area collective grating couplers.
Strikingly, we find that although the two systems are conceptually different,
under specific conditions they can behave similarly. By applying the same study
to SPPs, we find a different physical behavior, which fundamentally stems from
the different dispersion relations of SPPs as compared to GPs. Furthermore,
these hybrids produce large field enhancements that can also be electrically
tuned and modulated making them the ideal candidates for a variety of plasmonic
devices.