The 'chromosome map' diagram (ChM) proved a successful tool to identify and
characterize multiple populations (MPs) in 59 Galactic Globular Clusters (GCs).
Here, we construct ChMs for 11 GCs of both Magellanic Clouds (MCs) and with
different ages to compare MPs in Galactic and extra-Galactic environments, and
explore whether this phenomenon is universal through 'place' and 'time'. MPs
are detected in five clusters. The fractions of 1G stars, ranging from about
50% to more than 80%, are significantly higher than those observed in Galactic
GCs with similar present-day masses. By considering both Galactic and MC
clusters, the fraction of 1G stars exhibits: (i) a strong anti-correlation with
the present-day mass, and (ii) with the present-day mass of 2G stars; (iii) a
mild anti-correlation with 1G present-day mass. All Galactic clusters without
MPs have initial masses smaller than ~1.5 10^5 solar masses but a mass
threshold governing the occurrence of MPs seems challenged by massive
simple-population MC GCs; (iv) Milky Way clusters with large perigalactic
distances typically host larger fractions of 1G stars, but the difference
disappears when we use initial cluster masses. These facts are consistent with
a scenario where the stars lost by GCs mostly belong to the 1G. By exploiting
recent work based on Gaia, half of the known Type II GCs appear clustered in a
distinct region of the integral of motions space, thus suggesting a common
progenitor galaxy. Except for these Type II GCs,we do not find any significant
difference in the MPs between clusters associated with different progenitors.