Interfacial spin-orbit coupling in Josephson junctions offers an intriguing
way to combine anomalous Hall and Josephson physics in a single device. We
study theoretically how the superposition of both effects impacts
superconductor/ferromagnetic insulator/superconductor junctions' transport
properties. Transverse momentum-dependent skew tunneling of Cooper pairs
through the spin-active ferromagnetic insulator interface creates sizable
transverse Hall supercurrents, to which we refer as anomalous Josephson Hall
effect currents. We generalize the Furusaki-Tsukada formula, which got
initially established to quantify usual (tunneling) Josephson current flows, to
evaluate the transverse current components and demonstrate that their
amplitudes are widely adjustable by means of the spin-orbit coupling strengths
or the superconducting phase difference across the junction. As a clear
spectroscopic fingerprint of Josephson junctions, well-localized subgap bound
states form around the interface. By analyzing the spectral properties of these
states, we unravel an unambiguous correlation between spin-orbit
coupling-induced asymmetries in their energies and the transverse current
response, founding the currents' microscopic origin. Moreover, skew tunneling
simultaneously acts like a transverse spin filter for spin-triplet Cooper pairs
and complements the discussed charge current phenomena by their spin current
counterparts. The junctions' universal spin-charge current cross ratios provide
valuable possibilities to experimentally detect and characterize interfacial
spin-orbit coupling.