The greedy spanner is arguably the simplest and most well-studied spanner
construction. Experimental results demonstrate that it is at least as good as
any other spanner construction, in terms of both the size and weight
parameters. However, a rigorous proof for this statement has remained elusive.
  In this work we fill in the theoretical gap via a surprisingly simple
observation: The greedy spanner is \emph{existentially optimal} (or
existentially near-optimal) for several important graph families, in terms of
both the size and weight. Roughly speaking, the greedy spanner is said to be
existentially optimal (or near-optimal) for a graph family $\mathcal G$ if the
worst performance of the greedy spanner over all graphs in $\mathcal G$ is just
as good (or nearly as good) as the worst performance of an optimal spanner over
all graphs in $\mathcal G$.
  Focusing on the weight parameter, the state-of-the-art spanner constructions
for both general graphs (due to Chechik and Wulff-Nilsen [SODA'16]) and
doubling metrics (due to Gottlieb [FOCS'15]) are complex. Plugging our
observation on these results, we conclude that the greedy spanner achieves
near-optimal weight guarantees for both general graphs and doubling metrics,
thus resolving two longstanding conjectures in the area.
  Further, we observe that approximate-greedy spanners are existentially
near-optimal as well. Consequently, we provide an $O(n \log n)$-time
construction of $(1+\epsilon)$-spanners for doubling metrics with constant
lightness and degree. Our construction improves Gottlieb's construction, whose
runtime is $O(n \log^2 n)$ and whose number of edges and degree are unbounded,
and remarkably, it matches the state-of-the-art Euclidean result (due to
Gudmundsson et al.\ [SICOMP'02]) in all the involved parameters (up to
dependencies on $\epsilon$ and the dimension).